CHAPTERS 9 AND 10 OF THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO MARK
This is a LibriVox recording.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Simon Wainwright.
The Gospel of Mark, Chapter 9
And leadeth them up into a high mountain, apart by themselves, and he was transfigured before them.
And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow, so as no fuller on earth can white them.
And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus.
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here.
And let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
For he wist not what to say, for they were sore afraid.
And there was a cloud that overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, saying,
This is my beloved Son, hear him.
And suddenly, when they had looked around about, they saw no man any more, save Jesus only with themselves.
And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what things they had seen till the Son of Man were risen from the dead.
And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean.
And they asked him, saying, Why say the scribes that Elias must first come?
And he answered and told them, Elias fairly cometh first, and restoreth all things, and how it is written of the Son of Man,
That he must suffer many things, and be set at naught.
But I say unto you, that Elias is indeed come.
And they have done unto him whatsoever they listed, as it is written of him.
And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the scribes questioning with them.
And straightway all the people when they beheld him were greatly amazed, and running to him, saluted him.
And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them?
And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit.
And wheresoever he taketh him, he terreth him, and he fometh and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away.
And I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out, and they could not.
He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, How long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you?
Bring him unto me. And they brought him to him. And when he saw him straightway the spirit tear him, and he fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming.
And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said of a child, And oft times it has cast him into the fire and into the waters to destroy him.
But if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us.
Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth.
And straightway the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbelief.
When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him.
And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him. And he was as one dead, in so much that many said he is dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose.
And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could not we cast him out? And he said unto them, This kind come forth by nothing but by prayer and fasting.
And they departed thence and passed through Galilee, and he would not that any man should know it. For he taught his disciples and said unto them, The son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him.
And after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him.
And he came to Capernaum, and being in the house, he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way? But they held their peace, for by the way they had disputed among themselves, who should be the greatest?
And he sat down and called the twelve, and saith unto them, If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant of all.
And he took a child and set him in the midst of them. And when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them, Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name receiveth me.
And whosoever shall receive me receiveth not me, but him that sent me. And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and he followeth not us, and we forbade him because he followeth not us.
But Jesus said, Forbid him not, for there is no man which shall do a miracle in my name that can lightly speak evil of me. For he that is not against us is on our part.
For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward.
And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea.
And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off, it is better for thee to enter into life maimed than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched, where there worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off, it is better for thee to enter, halt into life, than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched, where there worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire, where there worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt.
Salt is good, but if the salt have lost its saltness, wherewith will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one with another.
And he arose from thence, and cometh into the coast of Judea, by the farthest side of Jordan. And the people resort unto him again, and as he was wont, he taught them again.
And the Pharisees came to him and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife, tempting him? And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you?
And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement and to put her away. And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept.
But from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife.
And they twain shall be one flesh, so then they are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.
And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter. And he sayeth unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife and marry another, committeth adultery against her.
And if a woman shall put away her husband and be married to another, she committeth adultery. And they brought young children to him that he should touch them.
And his disciples rebuked those that brought them. But when Jesus saw it he was much displeased and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not.
For of such is the kingdom of God. Fairly I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God, as a little child he shall not enter therein.
And he took them up in his arms, and put his hands upon them, and blessed them. And when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is God. Thou knowest the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, defraud not, honor thy father and mother.
And he answered and said unto him, Master, all these have I observed from my youth. Then Jesus, beholding him, loved him, and said unto him, One thing thou lackest, go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven.
And come, take up the cross, and follow me. And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved, for he had great possessions.
And Jesus looked round about, and sayeth unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God?
And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus answered again, and sayeth unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God? It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
And they were astonished out of measure, saying among themselves, Who then can be saved? And Jesus, looking upon them, sayeth, With men it is impossible, but not with God, for with God all things are possible.
Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee. And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake and the gospels.
But he shall receive in hundredfold, now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions, and in the world to come, eternal life.
But many that are first shall be last, and the last first. And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus went before them, and they were amazed, and as they followed they were afraid.
And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them what things should happen unto him, saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be delivered unto the chief priests, and unto the scribes.
And they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles, and they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him.
And the third day he shall rise again, and James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire.
And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you? They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory.
But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask. Can ye drink of the cup that I drink of, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?
And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of, and with the baptism that I am baptized with all shall ye be baptized.
But to sit on my right hand, and on my left hand, is not mine to give. But it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared.
And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John. But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and their great ones exercise authority upon them.
But so shall it not be among you, but whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister, and whosoever of you shall be chiefest shall be servant of all.
For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many.
And they came to Jericho. And as he went out of Jericho with his disciples, and a great number of people, blind Barnamaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highway side begging.
And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.
And many charged him that he should hold his peace. But he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.
And Jesus stood still and commanded him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise, he calleth thee.
And he, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee?
The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way, thy faith have made thee whole.
And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus in the way.